On October 13, 1972,
a Uruguayan plane crashed
into the Andes Mountains.
There were 40 of us passengers
and five crew members on board.
Some call it a tragedy.
Others, a miracle.
What really happened?
What happens when the world deserts you?
When you have no clothes
and you're freezing?
When you have no food and you're dying?
The answer is in the mountains.
We have to return to the past,
knowing that the past
is what changes the most.
MONTEVIDEO, URUGUAY
OCTOBER 1972
Come on! Get in there!
Come on, Old Christians!
Let's go. We got this.
-Get it! Come on!
-Let's go!
Come on!
Go, Old Christians!
-Let's go, Christians!
-Come on!
Let's go!
Keep it up! Go for it!
Go, Roberto!
Pass it to Nando!
Roberto, throw it!
-To Nando!
-Come on, Roberto!
Pass! Roberto, pass the ball!
Pass!
Pass the ball.
You had four guys on you. I couldn't.
-You could have, but you didn't.
-Less thinking, more doing.
-Like you could do better.
-How could I not?
Okay, but I won us the last championship.
You won?
All right! What's so funny?
How we played today, maybe?
Roberto, you trust me, don't you?
So, when I say,
"Pass the ball," I mean it. Okay?
And when I say the trip money
is due today, I expect it today!
We still have half a plane to fill.
Daniel, are your cousins coming?
-Yeah. Four of us.
-This is for my group.
-You couldn't find an envelope, Coco?
-No.
Anyone else?
Your friends, Gastón?
-Yeah, I got them to come.
-All of them?
Yeah. But I'm still working on one.
"'You are my beloved son,'
the voice said."
"And at once, the Spirit
drove Jesus out into the desert."
"He remained there for 40 days
and 40 nights, tempted by Satan."
"'If you are the Son of God, command that
these stones become loaves of bread.'"
"But Jesus answered,
'One does not live by bread alone,
but by every word…'"
Pancho.
Pancho!
"'Take this, all of you, and eat of it.
This is my body…'"
Pancho, this is for Numa.
"We proclaim your death
and profess your resurrection
until you come again, Lord Jesus."
Take this, Alfredo.
Hey, over here.
Get this to Pancho. There.
Thanks.
Numa.
Excuse me. Can you hand him this?
Gastón.
COME TO CHILE, MAN!
Workers and students,
hand in hand, we stand!
The Commercial Law final's on the 20th.
-I don't have time.
-It'll be postponed at least two weeks.
-I mean, look at this mess.
-It's not just school.
-I'm not even into rugby.
-It's not about the rugby.
Santiago, Chile, for $45.
When are you gonna find a better deal?
-Never!
-Not in a million years!
Check it out.
The numbers of all the girls we met there.
-Graciela…
-A total babe.
-Silvia…
-An elegant belle.
-Beatriz…
-A real bombshell.
-Nélida--
-Not her.
Are you kidding? She's gorgeous.
She left you crying
on the streets of Montevideo!
-Enough, man.
-Come on.
Keep this safe. Don't let Gastón have it.
Okay? Come on. Let's get another round.
Enough with the Nélida thing already.
It's none of your business.
Don't make me go alone
with these two idiots. Please.
This won't convince me.
Want a real reason to go?
-Okay.
-I want us to go together.
You're graduating in a few months.
Then it'll be nothing but work.
You'll be the top lawyer in Montevideo,
and we'll all be proud of you.
But we'll both be off living our lives.
Don't you get it?
This could be our last trip together.
You're not trying to make me cry, are you?
Workers and students,
hand in hand, we stand!
Good evening.
Hey. Get over here. Good boy.
Champ.
What do you think?
Should we go?
It's 8:00 a.m. on this Thursday,
here in Montevideo.
Jackass!
This is Berch Rupenian
with Impactos on Radio Independencia.
We're looking at sun and mild temperatures
heading into this four-day weekend,
so you can have a great time.
Come on, Panchito.
Have a nice day.
Thank you.
Numa!
How's it going?
Hi.
Canessa! Roberto Canessa!
Alexis. Alexis Hounie!
Enrique Platero.
Felipe Maquirriain.
Francisco Abal. Pancho.
Bye.
Behave yourselves.
Say goodbye to your mom.
Have a good time, okay? Bye. I love you.
One. Two.
-Javier, smile.
-Three.
-Got it.
-All right!
Great!
Let's go, guys!
Did you hear it click?
-Yeah.
-Perfect.
My name is Numa Turcatti.
I'm 24 years old.
I hardly know anyone here…
but it all still feels familiar.
Most of them are young, like me.
Raised with love in houses near the sea.
For some of them,
this'll be their first trip
away from home.
Come on, Carlitos. Sit down.
BOAT SINKS ON MONTEVIDEO COAST
Coco, over here.
Good one.
We'll send it to Diego's cousin.
-Get it framed for her.
-Thanks.
Dieguito!
Come on, Panchito. I want to win.
You have great cards.
Your cousin…
Hey!
The shark's hungry today.
The mountain range, huh?
Is it true it tries to suck down
everything that flies over?
Yeah.
It's true.
The warm winds from Argentina
collide with the cold mountain air,
creating a suction effect.
You're joking.
I'm not. That's why there's turbulence.
But we're one step ahead.
Look.
This is the mountain range.
We have to go from here to here.
But the route isn't a straight line.
If only it were that simple.
The mountain range is massive.
That's why we're flying south,
where there's a lower pass.
We'll cross there, and in Chile,
we'll turn north once we hit Curicó.
Ten minutes later, we'll land in Santiago.
Passengers, please fasten your seat belts.
We'll be landing in Santiago shortly.
Deal the cards. I'll be right back.
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
This is your captain, General Carlos Páez.
Please buckle up so your bodies
aren't scattered across the Andes.
-And tell your friends about our airline.
-Excuse me.
Take your seat.
Sit down, please.
Carlitos!
That's enough. Get your seat belt on.
Move to the front.
I'll need some room back here. Go on.
What's the matter? You scared?
Careful, Javier.
Nando. Your seat belt.
Sit down.
Nando!
-Susy!
-Don't move!
More power!
Our Father, who art in heaven…
Hail Mary, full of grace…
Gastón!
-Give me your hand.
-Roberto.
I'm down here!
Eduardo.
Marcelo.
Yeah, man. It's me. I'm here.
No! No more death!
No more death!
I don’t want him to die anymore.
Get him against the wall.
Not like that. Lift him up.
I need you to stay calm. Breathe.
Look at me. I'm a med student.
My name's Roberto. What's yours?
-Álvaro.
-Álvaro what?
Álvaro Mangino.
-The pilot's alive!
-Take this. Help me.
The pilot is alive!
Come on, Gustavo.
On three. One, two, three.
This way. That's it.
DAY 1
OCTOBER 13, 1972
The pilot is still alive. Open this up.
Nothing works. No lights. Nothing.
Tell me how the radio works.
What do I press?
Hello? Our plane crashed in the mountains.
We're from Uruguay.
We crashed in the mountains.
Can anyone hear me?
Does this work?
We passed Curicó.
What?
We're past Curicó.
What's Curicó?
Say it again. I don't understand.
-Help!
-Let's go.
Here!
God…
God be with you.
The night hits like an ambush.
In the span of minutes,
the temperature drops 30 degrees.
If the crash didn't kill us,
the cold will.
We huddle together the best we can.
Survivors and the dead, together.
I'm going home.
Your passport! Give me your passport!
Hold my hand tight.
That's how we spend the night.
Stay awake, or you'll freeze to death!
The injured cry out.
Come on!
So do the rest.
Let me go! Mom!
Mom!
Hold on to me.
Hold me tight, Pancho.
Help. Help!
Help!
We're alive, Pancho.
Can I have one?
Any idea where we are?
Not yet.
Marcelo. Pancho Abal
and Martínez Lamas are dead.
And the lady who was screaming yesterday.
Gastón was thrown out
when the tail broke off.
My cousin Daniel too.
Same with Guido and Alexis.
Nando's dying.
His sister's in bad shape too.
We don't have space to treat the injured.
We'll make room inside the plane.
We can take out the seats so we all fit.
Come on, guys.
We'll need to prioritize the wounded.
Let's set it up on this side
of the plane, where the sun is.
We'll do what we can for them.
-Platero!
-Yeah?
Anything you see that might be useful,
put it in a suitcase.
Check for food in the luggage.
Anything at all.
Put it all in one suitcase.
Here, Bobby.
What do we do with the dead?
Put them over there, to the side.
Just until help arrives.
EUGENIA DOLGAY DE PARRADO - AGE 50
GRAZIELA GUMILA DE MARIANI - AGE 43
DANTE LAGURARA - AGE 41
ESTHER HORTA DE NICOLA - AGE 40
FRANCISCO NICOLA - AGE 40
JULIO FERRADÁS - AGE 39
JULIO MARTÍNEZ LAMAS - AGE 24
FELIPE MAQUIRRIAIN - AGE 22
FRANCISCO "PANCHO" ABAL - AGE 21
FERNANDO VÁZQUEZ - AGE 20
CARLOS VALETA - AGE 18
Some more?
We have to make it last.
Help!
DAY 2
OCTOBER 14, 1972
-Not those.
-Do we have anything bigger? That one.
-No. Don't touch it.
-Roy!
Check for any rags, clothing, or coats.
Okay. Here.
Take this one.
Look for fabric, clothes, whatever.
Coco, take this. It's bigger.
How many will die tonight?
No one's gonna die, Carlitos.
I promise.
Here. Fill in the gaps
to keep the cold out.
Marcelo.
They'll come for us.
Tomorrow.
Fito Strauch isn't
as optimistic as Marcelo.
He's a sensible man.
He'd never disagree with the captain,
but he doesn't like what he sees.
This is a place
where living is impossible.
Where the only thing
that doesn't belong is us.
DAY 3
OCTOBER 15, 1972
Nando. Nando.
No. Nando, don't…
I can't hear you.
What happened?
We hit a mountain.
My sister.
Susy.
She's over there, resting.
Where's my mom?
She died, Nando.
-Bye, Dad.
-See you Monday. Take care of them.
Sure.
Don't worry.
-How long has it been?
-Three days.
Has anyone seen us?
Give me that. Okay. Thanks.
Hey! The wings rocked! They saw us!
-They saw us!
-The wings rocked!
Thank you!
Know what I could go for right now?
A chivito sandwich from Bar Arocena.
A loaded Canadian chivito.
I'd have a milanesa steak from La Mascota.
Yeah.
-With a fried egg on top.
-And fries.
-They make such good milanesas.
-The best.
Amazing milanesas. And the size of them…
With fries and ham.
-Bacon.
-Hey.
Why didn't they throw
some food from the plane?
That would make no sense.
It could sink into the snow.
We'd never see it again.
Bring the wounded here.
Easy.
Careful with his legs.
You're better off here, Arturo.
The Andes are huge.
They'd have to organize the search
in some way. Like by zones.
They were here yesterday.
We saw them fly overhead.
Today we heard them but didn't see them.
I bet they're searching a different area.
That means they didn't see us.
They'll come.
-We just need to have faith.
-Faith? Really?
Not a word to the younger guys.
It'll crush them.
You're the oldest.
You have a responsibility.
They'll find us.
-We can't go on like this.
-How long do we have?
-Heard of the rule of three?
-No.
Three minutes without air,
three days without water,
and three weeks without food.
Three weeks without food.
It's only been three days,
and I'm starving.
It's even worse here.
It's cold and we're at high altitude.
We're burning three or four times
as many calories.
Roque told us about the batteries.
They were in the tail.
We need to climb up,
where the plane crashed, and look for them
so we can get the radio to work.
We gotta keep going!
-The snow is still firm!
-Numa!
Save your energy!
I don't want to carry you back.
Fito.
What is it?
You can't see the plane from here.
They could fly over us,
and they still wouldn't see us.
Let's go back!
We haven't eaten for six days.
Last night, we split the last of our food.
Some saltine crackers.
Now there's nothing left.
Carlitos told me something.
He says Nando's losing his mind.
Last night he told him
he refuses to starve to death.
I refuse to starve to death.
-He'll eat the bodies if he needs to.
-I'll eat the bodies if I need to.
I told him we have no choice.
If we want to keep going,
we need to stay alive.
To stay alive, we need to eat.
Marcelo.
No one is coming.
We're starving to death.
-Wasting away.
-Seven days and nights with no food.
Nothing. If we don't eat something,
we're dead.
Eat what?
You're crazy, Roberto.
You're gonna drive
everyone else crazy too.
There's food out there.
There's protein outside,
the energy that we need.
-It's crazy to continue on like this.
-Roberto.
Roberto's right.
This is a matter of life or death.
What if we're rescued in two days?
Can't we hold on?
-Know what happens when you don't eat?
-Roberto!
Your body shrivels up, like a plant.
So does your brain.
You can't think, Marcelo.
-My pee is black.
-Mine too.
If we do it…
what'll happen to us? Will God forgive us?
He'll understand we're doing
everything we can to survive.
God has nothing to do with this.
I'm sorry, Marcelo.
Luck brought us here.
-Bad luck.
-It's just meat.
-It's people we love.
-How do you even cut up a body?
Who would be able to do that?
I would.
I'll do it.
Me too.
I won't eat.
We can't do it.
Is it even legal?
Won't we go to jail?
-It would be like donating your organs.
-What?
For it to be organ donation,
you'd need the person's consent.
Marcelo, it's a crime.
We can't just go
and use a body without consent.
-We need to eat.
-We don't have that right.
Don't I have the right
to keep myself alive?
Who's gonna take that from me?
Susy.
Susy. Susy, breathe.
No. Susana.
Susana, come on. No.
Gustavo!
Gustavo, help me, please.
Susana.
-Help me.
-What's wrong?
-She's not breathing. I don't know.
-Move her legs. I'll hold her head.
Roberto. She's not breathing, Roberto.
-Roberto, help her.
-Get her over here.
Help me, Gus. Come on!
-She's not breathing.
-Susy!
Coco Nicolich writes a letter
to his parents.
"Dear Mom and Dad,
I'm writing to you
eight days after the plane crashed."
"We are in a beautiful place,
completely surrounded by mountains,
with a frozen lake in the distance,
which will start melting
as soon as the thaw comes."
"We're all doing well."
"At the moment, there are 27 survivors."
"Nando Parrado's sister
passed away today."
"I miss you both so much."
"And I'm constantly praying to God,
asking Him to let me see you again."
This is a graveyard.
I'm not staying here.
My stomach hurts!
I know, Moncho. Calm down.
I can't breathe.
Look at me, Moncho. Breathe.
-I don't want to--
-Breathe.
-I can't breathe--
-You can. Just breathe.
I have to get out of here.
I'm suffocating!
You can't go outside now, Moncho.
Look at me. Calm down.
-I don't want to die here.
-You're not going to die.
-I don't want to die here!
-You're not going to, Moncho!
DAY 9
OCTOBER 21, 1972
If I die,
I give you permission to eat my body.
So you can stay alive.
I give my consent too.
So do I.
I also give my consent.
Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done…
Sorry.
I'm sorry, Marcelo.
Forgive me, Marcelo.
I'm sorry, everyone.
We have no choice.
I'm sorry, Marcelo.
Don't give me that look, Coche.
This is how I always look at you, Daniel.
The Strauch cousins
handle the most painful job.
The one no one wants to do.
Fito chooses the bodies
that the three cut up, out of sight.
Where the rest of us can't see.
They keep the ones
who do eat from losing their minds.
Hey!
-What?
-I found something!
A radio.
It's soaked.
Come on, Roy. Fix it.
Those of us
who don't eat keep watching the sky.
Waiting for a sign.
Left or right?
Higher, Coco.
If you want it higher,
we'll need to get some wire
and tie it to a pole.
Hold it there.
A little more to the left.
A bit more.
Not that much. A little to the right.
There.
A little to the left.
Higher, Coco.
Careful with the wire.
Here.
What's that?
Come on. It's easier with the snow.
No, thanks.
I can hold out.
You have to eat, Numa.
It's not right, Pancho.
No!
We are coming to you with new information.
The search has ended
for the Uruguayan plane that crashed
in the Andes
with the Old Christians rugby team aboard.
In the required ten days,
66 search and rescue missions
were conducted,
using 17 planes from the Chilean Air Force
as well as planes from the Uruguayan
and Argentinian Air Force,
but to no avail.
Search efforts will resume
at the start of next year,
when the thaw will give better visibility
for finding the wreckage.
The Chilean Air Force's rescue service
has reported that in 34 air accidents
that have occurred in the Andes,
no survivors have ever been found.
We will return after a commercial break.
Because they are made with quality parts.
And with beautiful colors and designs.
Customizable, with three different models.
Bicicletas Victoria, the bicycles
that take home the most wins.
I was wrong.
I asked you to wait for nothing.
But if there's one more thing I can ask…
then I ask you to eat.
Here, we only have our lives.
We have to defend them
above everything else.
We go to look for the tail of the plane.
Without telling anyone,
with no prior planning.
We have to find the batteries
to get the radio to work.
There's more there.
I'm here, Gastón.
That's Daniel Shaw, Fito's cousin.
He was behind me on the plane.
He got thrown out.
The sun's going down.
-We need to head back.
-No.
Just a little further.
If we found all this here,
the tail can't be far.
Who's up there?
Numa, Gustavo, and Maspons.
They didn't take any gear.
The temperature must drop
by 20 or 30 degrees up there.
Once night sets in, they'll freeze.
The sun melted the snow,
and now we're knee-deep in it.
No, that way!
We can barely keep going,
and nightfall has trapped us.
We're going to freeze to death!
Hit me!
The harder you try to escape,
the harder the mountain hits.
Gus, eat.
So, Numa.
What did you see up there?
Numa.
Tell me.
Just mountains with snow.
In every direction?
-As far as I could see.
-What about to the west?
-Could you see past the wall of ice?
-No.
It's impossible to see.
Chile is behind it.
That's where we need to go.
But you need to eat.
Or you won't make it to Chile.
Come on.
I don't chew it
more than two or three times.
And I force myself to swallow.
For the first time,
I consider the very real possibility
that I'll never return home.
But I look at Nando, and I feel hopeful.
He trains every day,
obsessed with one idea.
That beyond that mountain
lie the green valleys of Chile.
But climbing it is suicide.
Still, I'll go with him.
DAY 17
FIFTH DAY OF THE STORM
Look, Vasco, I will answer you
You clearly bought the rhyme you told
Why not get up
And go for a walk in the cold?
That was harsh, Bobby.
-Ready, Carlitos? Go for it.
-Hey!
The 27 of us barely fit
Maybe that is a sign
While we're all cramped down here
Up in the presidential suite, they're fine
As this tragedy does unfold
From my hammock
I see capeless heroes, bold
And though at times
I'm beaten by rage
Being with you
Is a gift from life, so sage
Though we're in this plane
Dying from the cold
Coco's lucky I have his feet to hold
But, Coco, don't get used to this state
We're going home to Uruguay
Where our families wait
-Nice one!
-Your turn, Coquito.
Mine's a bit more sentimental.
October 13th was my mom's birthday
I ask God for just one thing
To send me home safe and sound
-So for her next party, I'll be around
-Very nice.
Good one, Coco.
-Nice.
-Here, we have folks who are perfection
Yet there are others
With no direction
Who have no clue
Who won the presidential election
That was awful!
-All right.
-Just terrible.
At least I work. Unlike some people.
Here on the mountain, it's intense
I want to run from it like a puma
But first, I must hear a verse
From our reserved friend Numa
On this cold, frozen mountainside
Nothing's here, even the spiders have died
Inside this icebox
On the cold slopes
And rocks of the mountain
Of the mountain…
All right. Let's hear it for Numa!
Well done!
Help!
Roy!
-They're down there!
-I'm here.
Come on!
Fito!
Tintín!
Hold on!
We're gonna get you out!
-Coche, help.
-Get them out!
Dig! Come on!
Hang in there!
Hold on!
Everyone dig!
Help, please!
Hang in there, Numa!
Numa, I'll get you out!
Pancho!
Coco!
Liliana's underneath! Watch out!
Don't step there.
Liliana's underneath, for God's sake!
Watch where you're going!
That's where Liliana is.
Liliana, hold on!
Careful! Liliana's down there!
Get away from there!
I'll get you out, honey!
Here!
Coco, come on!
Coco!
Breathe!
Breathe.
Breathe, honey.
She's not breathing.
-Breathe.
-She's not breathing!
-Honey, breathe.
-Hold on!
Breathe.
Breathe, honey, breathe.
What's that noise?
What's happening?
What is that?
Come on.
Air is coming in.
-There's oxygen.
-Yeah.
Is everyone okay?
-Arturo?
-I'm alive.
Javier too. Liliana isn't.
-Vasco?
-Over here. I'm alive.
It's me, Roberto. I'm alive too.
Same here. Moncho.
Pedro Algorta here.
Diego?
He's dead, Fito.
Same for Roque.
Maspons didn't make it.
It's Nando. I'm alive.
Enrique and Juan Carlos are dead.
-Tintín, you okay?
-I'm here.
Coco?
-Coco?
-Coco's dead. This is Roy.
What about Marcelo?
-Marcelo?
-Marcelo!
-Captain!
Marcelo!
Marcelo was trapped.
He stopped feeling cold
because he stopped feeling altogether.
And it's a relief to not feel anything.
For 17 days, we've been waiting for this.
A moment of calm.
A second of tranquility.
-How much snow is there on top of us?
-It could be the entire mountain.
Everyone pray, please!
And blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
Today is October 30th.
It's my birthday.
I'm turning 25.
It's so hard to not think about home.
If there's light,
it means we're not too deep.
How long will we be stuck here?
Until the storm passes.
DAY 18
TWO DAYS BURIED
Our hunger is unbearable.
Till now, the Strauch cousins
have been able to make the meat just meat.
No name.
No face.
But that's no longer possible.
Guys? You're not gonna do anything?
Roberto.
We gotta eat to survive, right?
Are you giving up now?
After everything we've been through?
We need to get out of here.
I'm not staying!
I want out!
What do you want from me?
Enough, Numa!
Come on!
Stop it, Numa!
Numa!
DAY 20
FOUR DAYS BURIED
The sky.
I can see the sky!
Moncho, you go first.
You're smaller. Go on.
The sun!
Come on!
We made it.
Hey! What do you see?
-Your girlfriend Margarita's here, Álvaro.
-In a bikini!
Tell her I'm coming!
We're alive!
We're still here!
Quit it, man!
The bottle.
How's your leg?
It's nothing.
It's just a cut.
Save your energy, Numa.
I'm barely hanging on.
Don't say that, Arturo.
Don't lose faith.
I have more faith now than I've ever had.
Are you some kind of altar boy now?
Don't laugh.
But my faith…
Sorry, Numa.
…isn't in your God.
Because that God
tells me what to do back home…
but not what to do out here.
We can't look at what's happening here
in the same way we did before.
Numa.
This is my heaven.
And I believe in another god.
I believe
in the god that Roberto has in his head
when he treats my wounds.
In the god that Nando has in his legs
when he keeps walking no matter what.
I believe in Daniel's hands
when he cuts the meat.
And Fito, when he gives it to us
without saying which of our friends
it belonged to.
So we can eat it…
without having to remember
the life in their eyes.
I believe in that God.
I believe in Roberto.
In Nando.
In Daniel.
In Fito.
And in our fallen friends.
You're a philosopher, Arturo.
An altar boy and a philosopher.
Come on, man.
-Come on.
-We have to go.
Look at the sun.
We need to wait.
-For what?
-To prepare.
What if there's a storm?
We need to wait till it's warmer.
We can't spend a single night outside.
Tell him, Numa.
It'll start to thaw on November 15th.
Temperatures rise.
There'll be less risk of storms.
-Two weeks… just waiting around.
-No. Preparing.
Venturing out without a plan
hasn't gotten us anywhere.
We don't even know
how far we'll have to go.
Hey!
We need help over here.
-Are you comfortable in those chairs?
-Come on.
-Let's go, man.
-Come help.
All good?
Grab those plates.
Here. Let's get to work.
Need help?
DAY 34
THE THAW BEGINS
Help me, Roberto. Numa, give me a hand.
Support his head. Very slowly.
Lift him up. Come on.
Easy.
It's okay, Arturo. There you go.
Pull his shirt up slowly. Like this.
Arturo's very sick.
I give him three days.
Vasco, maybe a few more.
What do you think?
About?
-How long do they have?
-What do you want?
Tell me.
What do you want?
We've done all we can here
as doctors, Roberto.
We're going to end up
becoming gravediggers.
I know it's tough.
But you've got
the strongest legs on the team.
You have to walk for the rest of us.
Pass it!
Roberto, pass it!
Lay him over here.
I'm here. Breathe with me, Arturo.
Come on.
Arturo Nogueira's lungs
are filled with fluid.
He can't hold on.
That's it.
There we go.
Gustavo tries to help him.
That's it.
But no one can breathe for him.
We need to do everything we can.
Four of us volunteer.
We head downhill towards Argentina.
We wear more layers of clothing,
hoping to survive the nights outdoors.
DAY 36
EXPEDITION EAST, ARGENTINA
Numa!
Numa, are you okay?
It's infected.
We have to go back.
We can't carry Numa.
-Roberto.
-I'll head back alone.
The plane's not far.
Sorry.
What happened, Numa? Numa!
-What happened?
-Where are the others?
Numa, answer me. Say something, Numa.
You're here. With us.
Tell us what happened.
My dad!
-Vasco, we're here.
-Dad!
-Easy. We're here. Look at me.
-Where's my mom?
Look at me. Your dad's here.
Look. We're here.
-Dad! Dad, come here!
-Stop.
Easy.
We're here.
Vasco.
-Vasco, look at me.
-Dad!
-Thank you.
-Rafael… Rafael Echevarren.
Echavarren.
I don't get it, Javier.
From the second we crashed,
I've tried to help however I could.
I've always tried…
to do the right thing.
And now, with my leg like this…
I'm useless.
What is the meaning of it all?
Arturo, Vasco, and everyone else who died?
Liliana gave it her all. Always.
During the avalanche, under the snow,
I could feel her body below me.
I was only a few inches below the surface,
so I managed to get my head out,
and I yelled as loud as I could,
"Liliana, hold on!"
"I'll get you out. I'm alive."
I saw them walking over her.
So I shouted, "Don't step there!"
"Don't step there! Liliana's underneath!"
She couldn't get out
if I didn't get out first.
But I couldn't move
because my feet were against her chest.
And if I tried to get out,
I'd have pushed her in deeper.
Where's the meaning in that, Numa?
By the time we got to Liliana,
she was dead.
And while they continued
digging out our friends,
one dead, another alive,
I held Liliana as tightly as I could.
And I felt a love I'd never felt before.
I realized I had a purpose.
To take the love that I was holding
so tightly against my chest
and bring it back to my kids.
Her death was not in vain.
That injury doesn't make you useless.
Nando?
I heard you're lazy now.
You just sleep all day. Why's that?
-You need to train.
-What are you doing here?
You won't believe it.
We walked east for two or three hours…
and suddenly, we saw
the tail of the plane behind a hill.
We never would've found it.
It shot forward.
To the other side.
It was unbelievable.
There were suitcases
and clean coats everywhere.
Bottles of rum.
Cigarettes.
And chocolate.
Wait. Don't eat the wrapper.
You can't tell me what to eat.
There you go.
You were right, Numa.
We spent a night out in the elements.
It's a miracle we survived.
But we found the plane's batteries.
They were in the tail.
It'll be easier to bring the radio here.
Roy fixed the portable radio.
Roberto thinks he can get
the one from the plane to work.
We're going back down there.
We have to try.
Nando, Roberto, and Tintín go
with Roy to the tail of the plane.
I wish I could go with them.
Roy is very weak and doesn't think
that the radio will work.
Come on, Roy. We don't have much time.
He's terrified.
But he's doing it for the group.
-I can't believe it.
-Nice job, Roy.
1-C-6-0-1.
B… Not that one. Which was it?
-One, seven. This one.
-Seven.
What if the radio doesn't work?
What then?
We'll venture out again.
Right, Roberto?
West, to Chile.
Hello!
Hello?
We're the Uruguayans
who crashed in the Andes. Can you hear me?
We're here.
Hello?
With every day that passes,
we lose more of the life we have left.
Easy.
The food rations aren't enough,
so we strip the bones of meat.
What was once unthinkable
is now routine.
And we've stopped caring.
Come on.
Here. Have some.
You have to eat, Numa.
Have half.
Don't give up now.
I'm not giving up, Pancho.
I'm dying.
And it hurts not…
being able to do more for you.
Stop that.
Worry about yourself.
Worry about myself?
Just look at me.
I'm 25 years old, Pancho.
I have my whole life ahead of me.
I have so much left to do.
I want… to see my siblings again.
I want to see my mom and dad.
I want to dance.
-You never dance.
-I know.
But now I want to.
I want to do it all, Pancho.
I want to laugh.
-I want to cry.
-So cry, then.
-I can't.
-Cry.
Come on, cry.
Cry with me.
Why are you laughing?
Cry with me. Come on.
Let it out.
Come on, dummy.
Come on.
Nando!
Come look.
-What's that?
-It's waterproof.
We can use this, right?
It was covering the pipes.
-Is there more?
-Yeah, plenty.
One-C.
No!
AS OF TODAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1972,
THERE ARE 17 MORE SURVIVORS UP ABOVE
IN THE URUGUAYAN PLANE
THAT CRASHED IN THE MOUNTAINS
What happened?
The radio didn't work.
We found this fabric.
-What is it?
-Waterproof fabric.
-We can make a vest.
-Not a vest, Tintín.
-A sleeping bag.
-We can survive a night outside with it.
We have enough fabric.
We could make one big one.
When are we leaving, Roberto?
Roberto.
When?
Once the sleeping bag's ready.
Fifty-eight days after the disappearance
of the Uruguayan Air Force's
Fairchild 571 plane
with 40 passengers and five crew members,
chartered to transport
the Old Christians rugby team
and their companions to Chile,
the Air Force has prepared a C-47 aircraft
that will resume the search
in the Andes Mountains.
Roberto, there's no point
in going back to square one.
They said they'll look for us.
Yeah. The idiots
who flew right over us and didn't see us.
They're searching for bodies.
-We've been here for two months.
-Two months, Roberto.
Do you still think
they believe we're alive?
-We are alive.
-Alive?
Just look at us.
Look.
You call this living?
Look, praying won't get us out of here.
You're gonna sleep
on the mountain in this?
What are you doing, Roberto?
-Stop it!
-Roberto.
I thought you liked it.
Guys.
Look here. Picture time.
Tintín insists on taking pictures.
As though he's capturing snapshots
of a trip he'll return from.
I wonder who those pictures are for.
For us?
Smile, damn it.
I won't be alive to see them.
Come on. We can still smile.
Maybe they're for our families.
Or for other people
who are thinking about us,
looking at photos of us taken in the past.
Carlos, look at the camera.
By seeing us,
we will live again in their imaginations.
Because they'll ask themselves
the same questions
we're asking ourselves now.
"What happened to them?"
What happened to us?
Who were we in the mountains?
Nando.
I want you to know
you have permission to use my body.
Numa, don't talk like that.
I know I'm not making it out.
Don't say that.
It's the truth.
But it's okay.
I'm at peace with it.
I'm ready for whatever's next.
Both of us are.
And I'm so happy
to know that you're all gonna make it.
That makes me happy, Nando.
Thank you.
My name is Numa.
I died on December 11, 1972.
In my sleep.
THERE IS NO GREATER LOVE
THAN TO GIVE ONE'S LIFE FOR FRIENDS
We're leaving tomorrow.
You got this.
Good luck, Roberto.
-Thank you.
-You too.
One more hug.
Carlitos.
Yeah, man?
You can use my mom's
and Susy's bodies, okay?
All right!
-Come on, guys.
-Let's do this.
-Best of luck!
-Good luck!
Look both ways before crossing.
And don't forget about us!
-We'll be here waiting!
-One step at a time!
Go, guys!
DAY 61
EXPEDITION WEST, CHILE
Nando!
Let's find a place for the sleeping bag!
We need to climb a bit higher!
We won't make it to the top!
I'll take the middle.
It's so beautiful.
Too bad we're as good as dead.
I'm not going back.
The Andes can't go on forever.
The snow has to end at some point.
The ocean's just over there.
-You keep saying that.
-Look where we are.
After all we climbed.
It's all at our feet.
We just have to cross the valley.
How long could it take?
Ten days? Twelve?
We only have a week's worth of food.
What do you want to do?
Walk with me…
or wait in the plane?
You're asking me to die with you.
I'm asking you to come with me.
Look over there. See those two peaks?
In the middle.
It's like a pair of breasts.
There's no snow there.
See? That's Chile.
Can you see?
I see it.
Thank you.
Be careful out there.
Nando and Roberto are continuing west.
We decided I should turn back
so their food lasts longer.
From up there,
you can see some lower peaks.
They're brown.
There's no snow there.
The guys are just fine.
They have enough food for ten days.
Nothing's gonna stop them.
A valley.
Roberto!
Nando!
Hey!
Hey! Help us, please!
We're from a plane
that crashed in the mountains!
-Hey! Hey!
-We're so hungry!
AIR RESCUE SERVICE
I'M FROM A PLANE
"I'm from a plane
that crashed in the mountains."
"I am Uruguayan."
"We have been walking for ten days."
"There are 14 injured people
left in the plane."
"We need to get out of here quickly,
and we don't know how."
Call from San Fernando.
"We have no food."
"We are weak."
-"When will we be rescued?"
"Please, we can't even walk.
Where are we?"
We interrupt this broadcast
to bring you more information
on our special news report.
We now have the names
of the two young survivors
from the Uruguayan plane
that crashed in the Andes 71 days ago.
Their names are Roberto Canessa
and Fernando Parrado.
CHILEAN AIR FORCE
DAY 71
DECEMBER 22, 1972
Give it here.
Looking good.
What do we do with all this?
I'm going to tell you their names.
Can you hear me?
Repeat each name twice, please.
Each name twice.
Roberto Canessa.
Gustavo Zerbino.
Eduardo Strauch.
Álvaro Mangino.
Fernando Parrado.
Antonio Vizintín.
Pedro Algorta.
Alfredo Delgado.
Roy Harley.
José Luis Inciarte.
Ramón Sabella.
Javier Methol.
Carlitos Miguel Páez, my son.
Roberto François.
Daniel Fernández.
Adolfo Strauch.
There they are!
They're all there!
All of them!
We're going home!
Come on, Javier. Let's go!
Move, Roy! Get up!
Come on, Gustavo!
Leave it behind!
-What do you mean?
-We can't carry more weight.
Come on!
-Gustavo, let's go!
-I'm not going without the suitcase.
Get in! Where are you going?
Fine, bring it on.
Get in!
Let's go. Get in!
Get in.
On December 22, 1972,
16 survivors returned from the Andes.
Today my voice carries their words.
It tells of how we all played our part.
This is our story.
Mom.
It's a miracle.
-What do you mean, miracle, Mom?
-It's a miracle.
What miracle?
The homecoming is overwhelming.
What's this crowd doing here?
Everyone wants to get close to my friends,
to touch them, to hear the details.
"What happened in the mountains?"
Yeah!
The reporters ask,
with their cameras and microphones.
The doctors ask,
with their exams and instruments.
What do they see?
They're frightened by their dirty clothes.
Their skeletal bodies, burnt by the sun.
The grime on their skin.
Nando!
The newspapers write
about the heroes of the Andes.
The ones who returned from death
to reunite with their fathers.
Their mothers.
You look like an old man.
Their girlfriends.
And their children.
Only, they don't feel like heroes.
They were dead like us.
And only they got to return home.
And now when they remember us,
they ask themselves,
"Why didn't we all get to come back?"
"What is the meaning of it all?"
Only you can give it meaning.
You're all the answer.
Keep taking care of each other.
And tell everyone
what we did in the mountains.
SOCIETY OF THE SNOW
BASED ON SOCIETY OF THE SNOW
BY PABLO VIERCI
Subtitle translation by: Meredith Cannella